Good morning listeners and welcome to ‘Book Club’. I am your host, Joe Blogs
here on Radio One. Today, I will be reviewing the book ‘The Maze Runner’ by
John Dashner. It is the first book in the ‘Maze Runner’ trilogy and it is a real
page turner. It is currently number one on ‘The New York Times’ best seller
list and I highly recommend it to teenagers who enjoy sci-fi books such as
‘The Hunger Games’.
Prepare to be intrigued listeners. ‘The Maze Runner’ is set in a post-
apocalyptic sci-fi world. The characters live in ‘The Glade’ a large meadow
surrounded by the towering walls of the maze. In ‘The Glade’ fifty boys have
set up an organised civilisation with jobs and rules, like a microcosm of
modern society. The maze is an ever changing labyrinth of tall walls covered
in ivy that open up every morning and close every night.
Suspense is created through the many twists and turns in the plot. The
central protagonist, sixteen year old Thomas wakes up in ‘The Glade’, with
no personal memory besides his name. Outside ‘The Glade’ is the maze,
a labyrinth of high walls that house Grievers. The Grievers are villainous
characters, described as large lethal monsters of metal and flesh. They
only come out at night, so during the day a group of the bravest and fastest
boys go out into the maze to solve and map the maze which they realise is
constantly changing in a confusing pattern. Thomas is a determined and
courageous character who quickly asserts a leadership role becoming a
runner.  I felt that the most appealing facet of the ‘Maze Runner’ was the
infusion of mystery and intrigue. It compelled me to read on. Join me after
this short commercial break to unlock the shroud of mystery surrounding
the maze.
Welcome back listeners to Radio One, I am discussing the much acclaimed
John Dashner book ‘The Maze Runner’ on today’s ‘Book Club’. The
apocalyptic world of Gladers and Grievers may well represent good versus
evil. But who will triumph? The fate of the Gladers, despite the bravery and
tenacity of Thomas, Alby, Minho and Newt seems doomed as key moments
of crisis and complication arise. The greatest antagonists of all are the
Grievers, monstrous creatures lurking in the night.
2
Junior Cycle English: Classroom-Based Assessment
The Collection of the Student’s Texts
3
3
Junior Cycle English: Classroom-Based Assessment
The Collection of the Student’s Texts
Teacher annotations:
FQ1.
Genre awareness and control/creativity
The student’s writing showed an understanding and
control of the chosen genre - a radio talk. The talk also
demonstrates a critical appreciation for the genre of
the book being reviewed and its target audience of sci-fi
readers.
FQ2.
Writing competence and word choices
The student’s writing is consistently competent with
good use of rhetorical questions and effective word
choices well suited to the purpose of the text – however,
at times the colloquial language we would expect of a
radio talk is not evident.
FQ3.
Awareness of and shaping for receiver/
audience
The work is clearly shaped with the audience of listeners
in mind, as evidenced in the opening address, taking a
commercial break and reminding listeners to tune in
next week. The voice of a radio book reviewer is sustained
with a strong personal response dimension. However, the
plot summary is overly detailed at times, and could be
more succinct in order to maintain the listener’s interest
and engagement.
Level of achievement:
Best fit on balance  judgement =
Above expectations
Features of Quality:
Exceptional
The student’s text shows creativity and command of the
chosen genre.
The writing is highly competent, marked by original
ideas, and imaginative word choices are perfectly suited
to the purpose of the text.
The work is fully shaped for its intended receiver/
audience.
Above expectations
The student’s text shows very good control of the chosen
genre.
The writing is consistently competent, and effective word
choices are very well matched to the purpose of the text.
The work is clearly shaped with the receiver/audience in
mind.
In line with expectations
The student’s text shows good awareness of the chosen
genre.
The writing is generally competent, and word choices
match the purpose of the text well.
Content and development of ideas reveal consistent
awareness of the receiver/audience.
Yet to meet expectations
The student’s text shows little awareness of the chosen
genre.
The writing lacks competence, and word choices may be
inappropriate to the intended purpose of the text.
Content and development of ideas reveal little awareness
of a receiver/audien
